what is the purpose of money why do we
need it
why do people spend all of their lives
chasing money and trying to attain more
and more of it the truth is that we need
money to pay for our expenses our food
energy and shelter bills add up so we go
to work every day to be able to pay
those off but what if there was a
solution what if suddenly we didn't have
those bills anymore
what if we could drastically reduce our
monthly expenses welcome to the money
GPS strategy you came here for the truth
today we are going to talk about
self-sufficiency this is what I
discussed in my second book global
economic collapse many people ask how is
this ever going to be resolved every 7
years approximately there is some sort
of financial calamity a recession or
worse and people watch their wealth rise
and fall with the markets they are
invested in a particular asset whether
that's paper assets whether that's
precious metals or real estate and then
watch this go up and down so some nights
they're sleeping well and others not so
good now the strategy that I have
devised is to get away from the monetary
system altogether now perhaps not off
the grid but self-sufficient and that's
what we'll talk about today let's begin
this is just a little picture that I got
from online and it did little Photoshop
work here copy and pasting images and
essentially what I'm showing you here is
a home that's in a more rural area
perhaps rural residential and it's next
to a body of water now you don't have to
live in the middle of nowhere for this
to work and that's what I really want to
get into essentially you need to be out
of the city centers doesn't have to be
far out but it will be a good idea to
get out of the major metropolis
generally you don't get enough land and
you are too close to congested and this
is a problem resources are too tight in
the mega cities so of course this is not
the scale at all and this is simply just
to be a diagram to explain what I need
to so you're going to have your home and
whatever that means to you however large
it is and the amenities you want but
some of the things that you'll need in a
home are for example water now you may
have some sort of water available in the
home and that would be for your sewers
for example a lot of these places in the
more rural areas they tend to have
septic tanks so that would take care of
the waste and this is a good idea to
have some areas they have sewers
available but perhaps not to the
property so maybe your neighbor down the
street has this sewer and you would have
to pay for that line to be installed to
be brought to your property and
depending on the earth that you have in
your area depending on how far it is
there's cost that you incur is it worth
it
perhaps that's up to you to decide but
these are things that you need to
inquire about the cost is a huge
variance of course so look into this
water there's different types that's the
one being the sewage waste disposal
whether that is with a septic whether
that is with the sewer system I also
wanted to get into water catchment water
catchment is very very important this
can be on a very small scale or it can
be on a larger scale small scale perhaps
you have a rain barrel catches the water
and
you would be able to then to water your
plants with it for example great idea so
generally what happens for those who
don't know is off of the rooftop you
would catch water into a big container
of some sort and the bigger the
container the more you can do with it
but of course the larger the container
the more upfront cost as well as the
fact that you are able to provide more
water for different things in the house
maybe that's the only source of water
you need is available there but of
course that can be expensive requires
maintenance you would need some sort of
UV light you would need filtration on
that there's expenses of course and it
provides you most importantly with
self-sufficiency related to water now as
I've said this all depends on how much
upfront costs you want so that long-term
you become self-sufficient now maybe
this isn't the only source of water what
about well water many properties in
rural areas already have wells but it
depends on again the earth maybe there's
a very very hard rock underneath depends
on the soil you're going through depends
on deep you need to have to go there are
various things that need to be
considered with well water you don't
even know if that water is going to be
good enough where you're digging in but
it's a good way to be able to provide
yourself with a type of water so if you
can get good water out of a well and you
feel that the cost that you'll incur
digging out as well are beneficial to
you then you could do that so also
having both methods is excellent so I'll
get it to this just for a moment here
I'll interject the reason this is
different than basically living off-grid
is that individuals can have all of the
modern amenities they can even pay
monthly bills for certain things but
they're not reliant on them so suddenly
we take the power back we don't need
that monetary system so let's say for
example with the water I'm able to
provide myself with water
in times when the water supply is
contaminated how many cities have you
heard that their water supply has been
contaminated and not just with all the
things that are running through our tap
water supply I'm just talking about the
areas that have unfortunately their
water supply has been poisoned it
happens so you would be able to provide
your own supply of water maybe for you
maybe even for your neighbors if you'd
like to maybe for your family you could
do that so I think this is important
it's not considered enough because the
price of water generally is cheap so
when you live in many cities around the
world you can get water for cheap it's
not an expense that people even think
about but what happens when that supply
is disrupted then all of a sudden water
becomes very expensive look at all these
hurricanes water sells off the shelves
very quickly the price goes through the
roof what if you had your own you
wouldn't need to worry about that okay
so here what I'm talking about with
water and last but not least I just
wanted to mention that it is very
beneficial and it has negatives as well
to live near a body of water if you're
on a river or you have this some sort of
stream or you have a lake you want a
fresh water supply and maybe it's not
the highest quality but just having it
available is very very good now all of a
sudden to water all your plants for
example you've never needed to use water
from the tap you need never needed to
use one penny one dime to be able to
water any of that you would just go to
your supply and you use that to water
everything that would save money sure
maybe not today or tomorrow you would
see the savings but in the long-term
scenario of course you do as well as the
fact that you don't need to worry about
any sort of problems that are in the
water supply you're providing that for
yourself and I would also like to
mention the fact that at least in some
areas of the world there is in Ontario
in Canada they have these laws and I
know that other places do as well there
are certain conservation or
farmland or sort of special arrangements
particularly and that you can get tax
back so your property taxes you'll get
them back if you live on a particular
property so make sure you investigate if
you're thinking about behind you into a
property investigate this your property
taxes let's say you're paying five
thousand dollars a year you can often
get seventy five percent of that back
fifty percent of that back or even in
some cases a hundred percent of that tax
money you pay every single year back if
your property meets certain criteria if
you are a farm and you produce just I
think is seven thousand dollars per year
from your farm you are able to get a
little very large percentage I think it
was seventy five percent back on your
property taxes so you're using that for
agricultural land in Hawaii for example
they have a rule that is if it is zoned
as a high cultural you'll get that money
back so let's say most of your property
was sectioned off to be agricultural
land maybe you had two sheep on it maybe
you grew some crops on it
that's agricultural land you get the the
city or the county or whatever it might
be to come in they would be able to
assess it they would zone the property
accordingly and even if that's your own
property you have a house on it and
everything else they worked that out and
you get your tax money back so these are
laws depending on where you live you
need to investigate it I think it's so
important okay I don't want to rent for
too long here just knowing that a fresh
water supply is important think about
the tax incentives that you could get
research them for the place that you
live whether it's you know maybe has
something in your city maybe it's in
your state by the way I wanted to
mention the fact that if you live on a
body of water the stream coming through
that's very key so investigate that okay
looking at this solar panels you want to
be able to provide your own power
because when lights go out
all of a sudden things get scary but
when the lights are on Oh everyone's
fine nobody really Minds what if your
power prices increase power is becoming
very expensive in a lot of areas and
guess what it continues to go up so
maybe you want to provide yourself with
power and you can use solar panels or
other
alternatives out there geothermal maybe
you want wind power there's so many
different types right but the fact that
you don't have to rely on the grid is
something that I think is important then
you can take that solar you can store it
in batteries and it would provide energy
throughout the evening maybe on cloudy
days or what-have-you okay so that's
just one thing what I also think about
is when the power goes out I mean we've
had these instances in many cities power
will be over a day maybe two days all of
a sudden everything in your fridge your
freezer might have to be thrown away
so all those costs that you incurred you
bought all that food all of a sudden
it's garbage so that's important as well
as the fact that if you have maybe
elderly or maybe you have young children
you want to be able to make sure that
they are warm throughout the cold months
or vice versa maybe it's extremely hot
and you want them to be cooled down
during the hot months right these are
important things these are our insurance
policies essentially so you can get one
panel or something or two panels or
three or you can get many many panels
and that would be able to fight provide
more energy for you maybe you want more
batteries to store more it all depends
on how much you want to incur up front
how much cost you want to incur as well
as the fact that you don't need to incur
a single penny on your own on your own
out of your own pocket right there are
many first of all I'll mention this
there are tax incentives again for those
who are getting into solar if you are
going to buy purchase solar panels and
even electric vehicles for example the
government gives you money back and a
lot of cities in a lot of countries out
there okay the government's going to
give you money so look into those tax
incentives you'll get a lot of that
percentage-wise a lot of it back by
getting into alternative energy at the
same time you get all the benefits and
then on top of that you don't even have
to rely on it entirely maybe you're also
connected to the grid there's also
something that I wanted to point out is
that there are many companies out there
that will
stall solar panels on your roof for free
the catch is that any excess energy is
sold back into the grid and they make
the profit for some people they would
say that's a great idea I'll do that no
problem I don't want the extra money but
I don't really have any money to put up
front there's a lot of fine print there
there's a lot of things to know about
that but that's the idea so I hope you
get that provide your own energy and you
don't need to worry okay and last but
not least I just want to get into this
here okay we're talking about the food
supply and I put greenhouses here
purposely when you look at greenhouses
the reason I think this is so important
is because many people say that where I
live you cannot grow food year-round
well I personally live in Toronto and
it's a cold weather climate and you can
grow in unheated greenhouses year-round
all four seasons you have to choose the
right crops but it is possible
unheated greenhouses are very important
for those that want to have their let's
say they have their concerns about
chemicals that are coming from the sky
and and in the environment to you be
able to provide yourself with a shelter
from that as well as you don't have to
worry about pests at least as much you
know what to worry about the pests you
don't have to worry about any sort of
animals coming in and eating your crops
greenhouses can be purchased or built
for very very cheap and they're unheated
so you're not going to incur any
expenses with that and this is something
that I'm not an expert in but if you
want to check out the people who are you
can look at YouTube channels 1-yard
revolution that's one he's in Chicago
that individual and then there's also
another individual who goes to different
places around the world and mostly in
the US I believe and that is
growingyourgreens so john kohler on
growingyourgreens to someone very good
as well but the reason i mentioned one
year on revolution is because he has
greenhouses he lives in Chicago and he
does this year-round so I would consider
him
spurred on that lots of tips check that
out again the reason you want this is
because you want to provide your own
food supply now maybe you can't provide
everything the you eat but what if you
could reduce your expenses your food
bills and I assure you if you had a few
greenhouses or you just had a few plots
of land you can grow a lot of food in a
surprisingly small area you can see
those YouTube channels but also just
looking around on YouTube you'll find
people who are growing in a very
condensed environment in a typical
backyard and they're able to provide
themselves with a significant amount of
the food that they eat so maybe I'll
mention this you also want lines of
defense I think that this is very
important you want to be able to have
some sort of security around the border
maybe you want a natural border like a
border worth of trees around the sides
and and everything else you want to
provide yourself with maybe some fencing
maybe you want to put a concrete wall I
mean it's up to you but lines of defense
or something that I think is also
important because we worry we're always
worrying and taking away that worry I
think is worth something it's worth a
lot to me anyway so security is is
important there's so many different
things with that and I'll leave it up to
you depending on where you live and
what's legal let's say but okay so
that's not and essentially I just wanted
to quickly note there's a difference
between off-grid and self-sufficient
those who aren't off-grid want to live
in them perhaps live in the middle of
nowhere and they give up certain things
maybe they don't have a flush toilet
they can't have that maybe they can't
have their you know certain amenities
that were used to
maybe there's no plowing of the streets
where they live or maybe you can't even
access the roads during the wintertime
there's different things okay but then
there's self-sufficient so maybe you
live just half an hour outside the city
and you can get to a place that looks a
little bit like this I think that would
be great because you can provide
yourself everything you need
a half an hour drive and you're there
you're in the city center it depends on
where you live maybe it takes you two
hours to get to a place that's you know
the downtown core sort of thing but you
can probably get in most areas most
cities in a half an hour Drive you can
get to a city not even a town you could
probably get to a city and that would be
something that you can get what you need
maybe your supermarkets and maybe all of
this stuff that's another factor okay so
there's a difference between off-grid
and self-sufficiency I talked about
self-sufficiency in the money GPS
strategy and my new book global economic
collapse then there's something that I
touched on is the upfront costs versus
the long-term stability look if you're
going to put in solar panels and wells
and you're going to have greenhouses and
everything else these are costs that
come to you upfront so of course this is
something that maybe not everyone can
afford but maybe you can't afford to put
the greenhouse in yet but maybe you can
just get a few seeds and you can plant
them in the ground for now and then you
can look online you'll see
do-it-yourself type greenhouses and for
maybe a hundred dollars you can build
yourself a greenhouse and the solar
panels maybe you can't afford to pay for
them yourself now
but maybe you can get the guys to come
in and put them up and that would
provide you that way and maybe don't
have well but maybe you can get a barrel
that you found somewhere you got for
free off of Kijiji and you could start
catching your water so don't put
everything down don't say no I can't do
that and have that sort of negative
aspect negative outlook you can do this
you can do this this important things I
talked about more in detail in my new
book but I wanted to give you this
because so many people asked me so I
thought maybe I'll just do a video where
I get into some of the topics from that
book reduce your expenses but maybe you
can't necessarily eliminate your
expenses so what if you don't get that
much Sun where you live all of a sudden
solar panels may not be able to provide
a hundred percent of your power well
that's okay
what if they provided 50 percent of your
power or what if in this
summer months they provided a hundred
percent of your power but in the winter
months only thirty percent well that's
okay because that reduces your expenses
by thirty percent as well as the fact
that if you're storing this in batteries
if the power went out you're all good
your family is doing well and then maybe
the power comes back on after a day and
maybe by then your battery is lost as
charged but it's okay because you're
back on the grid so that's what I think
is important to look at all these things
a holistic type of viewpoint on it um if
you want more information of course in
my books but I thought I would bring
this to you I hope that you found it
informative people are always saying
that you know I have a negative look on
this and everything and then the economy
and everything else this is me this this
is my view of what is positive then we
can do this everybody can have this we
can have a piece of land for very cheap
compared to what we get in the cities we
can have all of the monitored amenities
we can have everything that's better
than what our centralized systems can
provide our power system can be way
better than what we experience in many
cities they have blackouts all the time
when you have your own solar panel maybe
you would be able to sustain that if you
had enough batteries and things you
would be able to do that and if your
systems went out for whatever reason you
could use the grid as your backup so
yeah you're going to incur costs perhaps
but they'll be very low in relation to
what you're paying today same with the
food supply it's contaminated you know
about all the things that I won't get
into you know the food supply isn't what
it used to be but you can provide some
of your own water catchment we don't
have to worry about the pollution the
poisons and everything else that's out
there and being on a body of water is
something else that's beneficial having
your own place to store the waste and
everything else is also important so
many factors that have discussed here
but there's so much more if you found
this video informative please give me a
thumbs up I hope do you support me in
this type of viewpoint what I call the
money GPS strategy if you want to know
more about that there is always
the place to go is that it's Amazon
where I have my books for sale you can
get on there you can flip through them
they the links are in the description
below if you're interested just to cover
very quickly the first book is more
about the money GPS formula and what
that is is basically having your assets
exceed your expenses but then I my next
book I talked about reducing your
monthly expenses so the two of them
together make something very beautiful
and they they really come together in
that way if you're interested check out
the links below
take care